---
layout: lesson
root: .
---

While there may be some generally applicable “best practices” for research across all the academic disciplines there is no “one size fits all” in terms of methods and techniques. Rather, general tools must be gathered and adapted to meet the research needs of each project. Having general tools that are flexible enough to allow these adaptations to take place without sacrificing their intended power becomes very important. Cloud environments are quickly becoming just such a flexible tool, allowing researchers to deploy websites, gather, store, and crunch data in a variety of ways all from a set of raw resources that can be repurposed in a variety of ways. Still, cloud computing remains more of a concept than a tangible actuality for most Humanities researchers and questions such as, “What is a cloud exactly ?”, “What can really be done in the cloud?”, and “How could I really run a cloud?”, linger, sapping momentum from what would otherwise be valuable research projects. 

This course is intended for those involved in research who are looking for a flexible platform that can perform a variety of research tasks with beyond desktop performance. Familiarity with working within a unix style command line environment is strongly encouraged but not required. Emphasis will be divided between designing cloud based environments for a representative of sample of projects, multi virtual machine systems to power websites, run scraping projects, and support instances of generic web based tools and actually deploying these environments within the Compute Canada Cloud. Participants can expect to leave with the ability to oversee the provisioning of a variety cloud environments and, ideally, with the ability to do a good portion of that provisioning themselves. They will also have running template environments that they have built themselves. Other topics that will be covered include security, performance optimization, modular development practices, and networking. 
